javac Bully.java
java Bully
javac Ring.java
java Ring

------------------------------------------------------------

In this assignment, we implement the Bully Algorithm and Ring Algorithm for leader election in distributed systems. These algorithms help select a new coordinator when the current one fails, ensuring smooth and coordinated operation.

Bully Algorithm (Brief)
When a process notices the coordinator has failed, it starts an election.

It sends an ELECTION message to all processes with higher IDs.

If no higher process responds, the initiating process becomes the new coordinator.

If a higher process responds, that process takes over the election.

The process with the highest ID wins — that's why it’s called the Bully algorithm ("biggest guy wins").



🛠️ Ring Algorithm (Brief)
All processes are arranged logically in a ring (each knows its successor).

When a process detects the coordinator has failed, it sends an ELECTION message around the ring.

Each process adds its ID to the message when it forwards it.

When the message returns to the initiator, it chooses the highest ID as the new coordinator.

The winner is announced around the ring using a COORDINATOR message.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Theory Questions:
What is the Bully Algorithm?
→ It is a leader election algorithm where the highest-numbered active process becomes the new coordinator.

Why is it called the Bully Algorithm?
→ Because the process with the highest ID “bullies” others and becomes the leader.

When does a process initiate an election in Bully Algorithm?
→ When it detects that the current coordinator is not responding.

What message types are used in Bully Algorithm?
→ ELECTION, OK, and COORDINATOR messages.

What is the assumption about process IDs in the Bully Algorithm?
→ Each process has a unique numerical ID and knows the IDs of all other processes.

Ring Algorithm Questions:
How are processes arranged in the Ring Algorithm?
→ Processes are logically arranged in a ring where each process knows its next neighbor.

What happens when a process initiates an election in Ring Algorithm?
→ It sends an ELECTION message to its next live neighbor, passing along process IDs.

How is the new leader selected in Ring Algorithm?
→ The process with the highest ID in the election message wins.

What message announces the winner in Ring Algorithm?
→ A COORDINATOR message circulates to inform all processes about the new leader.

What happens if a process is down during election in Ring Algorithm?
→ The election message skips over dead processes to find the next live neighbor.

Practical/Code Questions:
Which programming language is used for the implementation?
→ Java programming environment (JDK 1.8).

What happens if multiple processes initiate election at the same time in Bully Algorithm?
→ The process with the highest ID among them eventually becomes the coordinator.

Can multiple coordinators exist at the same time after election?
→ No, both algorithms guarantee that finally only one leader is elected.

Which algorithm is better for systems with high communication costs?
→ Ring Algorithm is better because it uses fewer messages.

What is the main weakness of the Bully Algorithm?
→ It can cause many messages and load if lower ID processes keep initiating elections.