terminal 1
javac *.java
rmic AddServerImpl

terminal 2
rmiregistry

ter 3 
java AddServer

t4 
java AddClient 127.0.0.1 5 8

---------------------------------------------------------
This assignment focuses on implementing multi-threaded client/server communication using Java RMI (Remote Method Invocation). It demonstrates how distributed applications can interact by invoking methods on remote objects across different JVMs.


Here’s a simple step-by-step of what you're coding in Assignment 1:

1. Create a Remote Interface

Define the methods that can be called remotely.

Example: a method like double add(double a, double b).

2. Implement the Remote Interface (Server Side)

Write a class that implements the remote interface.

This class will actually perform the operations (like addition).

3. Create the Server Program

Start the RMI Registry (rmiregistry).

Register (bind) your remote object with a name (like "AddServer").

4. Create the Client Program

The client looks up the server by name via RMI Registry.

It calls the remote method (like add(7, 8)) and gets the result.

5. Generate Stub Files (only needed in older Java versions)

Use rmic tool to generate the stub class if required.

6. Compile and Run

Compile all .java files.

Run rmiregistry.

Start the server.

Run the client and see the result.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Basic Questions
What is RMI?
→ RMI (Remote Method Invocation) allows a Java program to invoke methods on an object located on a remote machine.

Why do we need Remote Method Invocation (RMI) in Java?
→ To enable distributed computing where objects communicate across different JVMs over a network.

What is the role of the RMI Registry?
→ The RMI registry stores and provides access to remote objects by name.

What is the difference between a stub and a skeleton in RMI?
→ Stub acts as a client-side proxy while skeleton was a server-side proxy (used in older RMI versions).

What is a remote interface? Why must it extend Remote?
→ A remote interface declares methods for remote access and must extend Remote to mark it as remote-capable.

Why do remote methods throw RemoteException?
→ To handle possible network communication failures during remote method calls.

What is the purpose of UnicastRemoteObject?
→ It enables a server object to accept incoming remote calls.

Explain the steps to implement a Java RMI application.
→ Define remote interface → Implement it → Bind in server → Lookup and call in client.

What happens if we forget to start the RMI Registry before running the server?
→ The server will throw an error when trying to bind the remote object.

Can RMI work without an interface? Why or why not?
→ No, because the client needs a remote interface to know what methods it can call.

⚡ Code-specific Questions
Why do we use Naming.rebind() in the server code?
→ To bind or update the remote object’s reference in the RMI registry.

What does Naming.lookup() do on the client side?
→ It retrieves the remote object reference from the RMI registry.

Why is super() used in AddServerImpl constructor?
→ To call the UnicastRemoteObject constructor and export the object for remote access.

What is the URL format used when calling Naming.lookup()?
→ rmi://<server_ip>/<service_name>

How does the client know which method is available on the server?
→ Through the remote interface that both client and server share.

What are the arguments passed to AddClient when you run it?
→ Server IP address, first number, and second number.

🧠 Slightly Advanced Viva Questions
What would happen if two clients tried to connect to the server at the same time?
→ Both can connect and invoke methods since RMI handles concurrent calls.

How is RMI different from simple socket programming?
→ RMI abstracts networking by letting you call methods directly instead of manually managing data streams.

Is RMI limited to Java-to-Java communication only?
→ Yes, standard RMI works only between Java programs.

What is marshalling and unmarshalling in RMI?
→ Marshalling means converting objects into bytes, and unmarshalling means reconstructing them.

How does RMI achieve distributed computing transparency?
→ By making remote method calls look like local method calls to the programmer.